Worker Versioning Pre-Release Doc (#6112)
temporalio/temporal: docs/worker-versioning.md

> Worker Versioning

Reviewer: Should we have a call-to-action somewhere asking for feedback?

=================

**Note 1:** In this iteration of Worker Versioning we deprecated the Version Set concept 
and APIs related to it. If you are using old Worker Versioning APIs please migrate
to the new APIs using the process [outlined in a later section](#migrating-from-version-sets).

**Note 2:** Worker Versioning is still considered experimental and not recommended 

> for production usage. Future breaking changes may be made in deemed necessary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for production usage. Future breaking changes may be made if deemed necessary.
```

Worker Versioning guarantees that Workflow Executions started on a particular Build ID
will only be processed by Workers of the same Build ID, unless instructed otherwise 
(via [Redirect Rules](#redirect-rules)). With this guarantee, you can make any
([non-deterministic](https://docs.temporal.io/workflows#non-deterministic-change)) 
change to your Worker Programs freely and instruct Temporal Server to send new 
executions to the new Build ID and let old executions run on their old Build IDs to
completion.

When using Worker Versioning, you may need to run multiple versions of your Worker for
some time, until Workers of old Build IDs are not needed anymore (i.e. they are not
reachable by any current or future Workflow Execution). Temporal provides Reachability
API to help determine when a Worker version can be decommissioned. 

## When and why you should use Worker Versioning

The main reason to use this feature is that it frees you from having to worry about
nondeterministic changes. This is a significant gain, however it comes at the cost of
running multiple versions of Workers simultaneously.

For this reason, Worker Versioning is best suited for short-lived Workflows. Because 

> the old Build ID is only needed to be kept for a short window during/after a deployment

Reviewer 2: it reads weird to say "the old Build ID is only needed"... it's not the "build ID" itself that's needed, it's "workers with the old build ID"

until all open workflows belonging to it close.

For long-running Workflows, you would need to keep multiple versions of your Workers 
running for an extended duration, or avoid making any nondeterministic changes by using
[Patching](https://docs.temporal.io/workflows#patching) or other means.

There are also ways to break some long-running Workflows to shorter ones to benefit from
Worker Versioning.

## Worker Versioning Rules

Temporal Server allows you to manage routing of tasks to Build IDs via 
**Worker Versioning Rules**.

Worker Versioning rules and added to a given Task Queue. If your Worker Program contains 
multiple Workers polling multiple Task Queues, you would need to separately update the rules 
of each Task Queue.

> There are two types of rules: _Build ID Assignment rules_ and _Compatible Build ID Redirect rules_.

Reviewer 2: could we just call them "Build ID Redirect rules"? they must be compatible, yes, but maybe it doesn't have to be part of the official name?

### Assingment Rules

> Assignment rules are used to assign a Build ID for a new execution when it starts. Its primary
> use case is to specify the latest Build ID, but it has powerful features for gradual rollout
> of a new Build ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Assignment rules are used to assign a Build ID for a new execution when it starts. Their primary
use case is to specify the latest Build ID, but they have powerful features for gradual rollout
of a new Build ID.
```

subset of the tasks to a new Build ID based on a "ramp percentage".

When there are multiple assignment rules for a Task Queue, the rules are
evaluated in order, starting from index 0. The first applicable rule will be
applied and the rest will be ignored.

In the event that no assignment rule is applicable on a task (or the Task
Queue is simply not versioned), the tasks will be dispatched to an
unversioned Worker.

### Redirect Rules
Redirect rules should only be used when you want to move workflows and activities assigned to
one Build ID (source) to another compatible Build ID (target). You are responsible to make sure
the target Build ID of a redirect rule is able to process event histories made by the source
Build ID by using [Patching](https://docs.temporal.io/workflows#patching) or other means.

Most deployments are not expected to need these rules, however following
 situations can greatly benefit from redirects:
  - Need to move long-running Workflow Executions from an old Build ID to a
    newer one.
  - Need to hotfix some broken or stuck Workflow Executions.

In steady state, redirect rules are beneficial when dealing with old

> Executions ran on now-decommissioned Build IDs:

Reviewer: *that ran

>   - To redirecting the Workflow Queries to the current (compatible) Build ID.

Reviewer: Hmm, thanks for pointing this out.  It's concerning as it implies that we will break workflow queries on closed workflows by default unless people use redirect rules.  Which seems to not be what you're recommending above.
Thinking about target audience, if the readers are platform developers, they'll want to set up a deploy system that accounts for all the different things their developers might do, including querying of closed workflows, even though that behavior might be unusual.
If developers just own a worker with a couple workflows with few plans for growth, they might be able to get away with some shortcuts.

Reviewer 2: They'll only break if the original workers are decommissioned. Which is certainly a tempting thing to do if those workers are no longer processing open workflows. I could imagine many situations where leaving a single old worker running to handle queries makes sense (instead of redirecting the queries).

  - To be able to Reset an old Execution so it can run on the current
    (compatible) Build ID.

Redirect rules can be chained.

## How to Use Worker Versioning
To use Worker Versioning, you need to:

> 1. Using Worker options to opt in Worker Versioning and pass Build ID. This is supported 

Reviewer: Grammar.  Consider:
*Pass the build ID into your worker via Worker options.

in all SDKs. 

Below is an example written in Go. It is assumed that the Build ID is provided via a env 
variable.
```go
workerOptions := worker.Options{

>    BuildID: os.Getenv("BUILD_ID"),

Reviewer 2: I know we had this debate already but I don't like the idea of getting the build id from an env var. For this example can we be agnostic and just call a function `GetBuildID()` that isn't listed so we don't imply any method or another?

   UseBuildIDForVersioning: true,
// ...
}
w := worker.New(c, "your_task_queue_name", workerOptions)
```

> 2. Deploy your worker with new Build ID while keeping the old Build ID still running.

Reviewer: Duplicate #2

Reviewer 2: In markdown actually I would use `1.`, `1.`, `1.` and let it renumber

2. [Use CLI to update Worker Versioning Rules](#update-rules-using-cli) 
to send new (and possibly existing, if you are deploying a compatible build) executions 
to the new Build ID. Depending on your deployment strategy you may need to update the 
rules multiple times.
3. Use CLI to get reachability status of the old build ID. Once the Build ID is not 
reachable, decommission the old Build ID.

> **Note for Temporal Server Operators:** Worker Versioning needs to be enabled from server

Reviewer: nit: s/from server/in the server/

before being able to run versioned workers or update the rules. To enable Worker Versioning

> set the following dynamic configs to `true`: `frontend.workerVersioningRuleAPIs`, 

Reviewer: nit: Can this be shown in code rather than described?

> `frontend.workerVersioningWorkflowAPIs`. Both configs are per Task Queue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`frontend.workerVersioningWorkflowAPIs`. Both configs allow configuration globally,
per Namespace, or per Task Queue.
```

### Update Rules Using CLI
You can use `temporal task-queue versioning` commands to update and read the Versioning 
rules of a given Task Queue. Here are a few examples:

**Add Assignment rule:** send 10% of new executions to Build ID "abc-123".
```shell

> temporal task-queue versioning insert-assignment-rule --task-queue MY_TQ --build-id abc-123 --percentage 10

Reviewer: First they need to get the task queue identifiers.  Can they query for those?

```

> **Commit Build ID** to complete the rollout of "abc-123" and cleanup unnecessary rules.

Reviewer: This is the first time you've mentioned the concept of "committing".  What does it do and when should I use it?
Is it safe to use this if I've got queries that might run on workflows assigned to older builds?

```shell

> temporal task-queue versioning commit-build-id --task-queue MY_TQ --build-id abc-123

Reviewer: It would help to see sample output for all these commands.

```shell
temporal task-queue versioning add-redirect-rule --task-queue MY_TQ --source-build-id abc-123 --target-build-id xyz-789
```

**List Versioning rules**:
```shell
temporal task-queue versioning get-rules --task-queue MY_TQ
```

### Get Reachability Info via CLI
You can use `temporal task-queue describe` command to get reachability status of a Build ID.
Example: report reachability of Build ID "abc-123" on Task Queue MY_TQ:
```shell
temporal task-queue describe --task-queue MY_TQ --select-build-id abc-123 --report-reachability
```

The reachability status can be one of the following:
- **REACHABLE:** Build ID may be used by new workflows or activities (base on versioning 
rules), or there MAY be open workflows or backlogged activities assigned to it.
- **CLOSED_WORKFLOWS_ONLY:** Build ID does not have open workflows and is not reachable
by new workflows, but MAY have closed workflows within the namespace retention period. 
Not applicable to activity-only task queues.
- **UNREACHABLE:** Build ID is not used for new executions, nor it has been used by 
any existing execution within the retention period.
- **UNSPECIFIED:** Task reachability is not reported

#### Caveats:

> - Task Reachability is eventually consistent; there may be a delay until it converges to the most

Reviewer: how much of a delay?

accurate value but it is designed in a way to take the more conservative side until it converges.

> For example REACHABLE is more conservative than CLOSED_WORKFLOWS_ONLY.

Reviewer: Not sure what this sentence means or how that should affect my usage.

Reviewer 2: When you're testing, you might run a single workflow on a build id, see that it's completed, change the assignment rules, but then reachability for that build id still reports REACHABLE, instead of CLOSED_WORKFLOWS_ONLY as you might expect. This just explains why that is: there's a delay, and it errs on the conservative side. The other way (reporting something less than REACHABLE when there are running workflows, leading an operator to decommission workers), could lead to an outage.

- Future activities who inherit their workflow's Build ID but not its Task Queue will not be
accounted for reachability as server cannot know if they'll happen as they do not use
assignment rules of their Task Queue. Same goes for Child Workflows or Continue-As-New Workflows
who inherit the parent/previous workflow's Build ID but not its Task Queue. In those cases, make
sure to query reachability for the parent/previous workflow's Task Queue as well.

> ## Best Practices

Reviewer: I think our customers would benefit from a  "Getting started" or walkthrough.  I suspect the reference guide you gave above is helpful for those diving into details, but a bit too abstract to get them started on building a real deployment solution.  In particular, it's not clear *when* to call all those commands and which ones are recommended.

[WIP]

## Planned Improvements

> Worker Versioning is currently in Pre-Release (alpha) stage. We continue to improve this

Reviewer: As above, let's use the consistent terminology from the release stages doc.

feature before the public release. Here are some improvements planned for the coming months:

- [TBD]

## Migration Notes

> ### Migrating from Unversioned Task Queue

Reviewer: nit: from *an

To migrate your existing Task Queue, follow the normal procedure as if you upgrade from
one Build ID to another.

The only limitation is that, as of now, redirect rules with unversioned source is not 

> supported. Hence, if you want to redirect you long-running unversioned Workflows to a 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
supported. Hence, if you want to redirect your long-running unversioned Workflows to a 
```

> Build ID that is not possible. (This may change in the future.)

Reviewer: Hmm, doesn't this mean people with long-running workflows can't even get started?  If so, we should headline that toward the top that workers with long-running workflows are currently unsupported.
As a reader, I want to know upfront, "should I be using this?"  As the docs exist today, I have to read the whole doc and make some subtle inferences to realize this.

Reviewer 2: They can leave the unversioned ones on unversioned workers and start new ones on versioned workers. Essentially treating "unversioned" as "version 0".

They can't redirect but they can upgrade their unversioned workers with new (compatible) code, just as they could do without versioning.

Reviewer: But that means they'd need to have two deployments indefinitely.

### Migrating from Version Sets
If you are using old Versioning API (i.e. using [Version Sets](https://docs.temporal.io/workers#defining-the-version-sets))
you can easily migrate to the new API.

You don't need to change your worker code or Task Queue name. Only for your next 
deployment, add an Assignment rule instead of a Version Set (incompatible Build ID).

The Version Sets added previously will be present and be used for the old Workflow

> executions. They will be cleaned up automatically once all their workflows are archived.

Reviewer 2: Don't use "archived", that suggests it has to do with the archival feature. Do you mean "pass their retention time"?

and an existing worker processing them. The workflow/worker could be versioned or unversioned.

### 1. Define your new versioned worker
In the worker options, pass in the Build ID your worker will poll on, _and_ opt in to use the
Build ID for versioning. The best practice is to provide a new Build ID generated by your build
pipeline whenever a new build of your code is made. Below is an example written in Go.
```go
w := worker.New(
        c, "my-tq", worker.Options{
            UseBuildIDForVersioning: true,
            BuildID:                 os.Getenv("BUILD_ID"),
        },
)
```

### 2. Build and deploy your new versioned worker
Build and deploy your worker with the tool of your choice (i.e. docker). The worker will begin
polling for tasks scheduled to the Build ID you specified, but it won't receive any tasks until
the versioning rules are updated.

### 4. Assign 1% of new workflow executions to your new Build ID
[Add an assignment rule](#update-rules-using-cli) targeting your Build ID to send 1% of new
tasks to your versioned worker.
```shell
temporal task-queue versioning insert-assignment-rule --task-queue my-tq --build-id $BUILD_ID --percentage 1
```

> Once this rule is created, 1% of tasks from new workflow executions will be sent to the versioned

Author: ```suggestion
Once this rule is created, 1% of new workflow executions will be sent to the versioned
```

	1. Adds an unconditional assignment rule for the target Build ID at the end of the list.
	2. Removes all previously added assignment rules to the given target Build ID.
	3. Removes any unconditional assignment rules for other Build IDs.

To prevent committing invalid Build IDs, we reject the request if no pollers
have been seen recently for this Build ID. Use the force option to disable this validation.

### 7. Wait until the old workers are not needed
Check the reachability of your old version. Now that all new workflow executions are assigned to the new Build ID,
your old worker (that was running in step 0) will not receive any tasks from new workflow executions. Running workflow
executions will send their outstanding tasks to workers with the version that the workflow execution is assigned to 
(barring other instructions via [Redirect Rules](#redirect-rules)).  Unless your application performs queries to closed workflows, a worker is no longer needed after the reachability status transitions from `REACHABLE` to `CLOSED_WORKFLOWS_ONLY`.

```shell
temporal task-queue describe --task-queue my-tq --select-build-id $OLD_BUILD_ID --report-reachability
```

> Note: Set `OLD_BUILD_ID` to your previous default version, or to the empty string if your previous default was unversioned.

Author: ```suggestion
Note: If your previous default was unversioned, replace `--select-build-id $OLD_BUILD_ID` with `--select-unversioned` in the above command.
```

> If you omit the `--select-build-id` flag, results for the current default Build ID will be returned.

Author: ```suggestion
If you omit the `--select-*` flags, results for the current default Build ID will be returned.
```
